= easy_downloader

This is a dead simple, one-method downloader, with friendly error messages.

EasyDownloader reduces the amount of work required to setup and check for errors when downloading from another location. This
is useful when, for example, a client wants to you to pick a file up from their FTP, SFTP, or regular website on a nightly basis.
EasyDownloader gives you a one-method means of downloading those files, returns with a friendly error message if it fails
(geared at cron job notifications), or returns an array of file names it downloaded.

== Example

First, add the following to your Gemfile:

  gem 'easy_downloader'

Then, in your application:

  my_results = EasyDownloader.download(
      :type           => :ftp,
      :host           => '127.0.0.1',
      :user           => 'app',
      :password       => 'example'
      :remote_path    => '/some/directory/IWantToChangeTo'
      :remote_pattern => '.*\.txt'
      :local_path     => Rails.root+'/my_downloaded_stuff/'
      )

  my_results.results
    => "We found 1 file(s) to download with the following names:
        #1. test_file.txt
        Started downloading at Tue Dec 21 16:04:46 -0500 2010
        Progress:
        Starting to download test_file.txt
        Finished downloading test_file.txt
        Finished downloading at Tue Dec 21 16:04:46 -0500 2010
        Downloaded 1 file(s)"

  my_results.files
    => ['test_file.txt']

The returned object only has two attributes (did I mention this was dead simple):
 1. result
 2. files

The available keys are:

  :type =>  (required) The protocal used to download the file. One of :sftp, :ftp or :http.
  :host =>  (required) the domain of the remote server (source)
  :remote_path => a relative path to "cd" into when we first access the remote server
  :remote_pattern => a glob pattern that will select only the files we want to download.%
     see Ruby's core API if you are not familiar with this concept.

     NOTE: for *ftp* downloads, this matches a regular expression to the name of files in the current directory.
           for *Sftp* downloads, this uses the 'glob' pattern as mentioned above.

  :user =>  a username or login used for authenticating on the server
  :password =>  a password that, in combination with the user, will grant access to the remote server/host

== Contributing to easy_downloader

* Check out the latest master to make sure the feature hasn't been implemented or the bug hasn't been fixed yet
* Check out the issue tracker to make sure someone already hasn't requested it and/or contributed it
* Fork the project
* Start a feature/bugfix branch
* Commit and push until you are happy with your contribution
* Make sure to add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Please try not to mess with the Rakefile, version, or history. If you want to have your own version, or is otherwise necessary, that is fine, but please isolate to its own commit so I can cherry-pick around it.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Bernardo Telles. See LICENSE.txt for
further details.

